>> Josh Long: We covered a few things.
Now that you have got like some
meat you can chew in a little bit,
I was hoping we could
pull something together.
Just a trivial app talking to a database.
And since you've got Docker and
since you've got Start Spring IO and
it'll give you a Docker Compose file,
you know, and
you've learned a little
bit about data access.
I'm talking about SQL and postgres, but
I'm sure you can figure out something and
then just build a simple
hello world HTTP endpoint.
It doesn't matter which one I showed you.
It could be HTTP, it could be rest,
it could be hypermedia, it could be GRPC,
it could be GraphQL, whatever.
Can we do that?
Just a simple read a record
from a database and
then return it from
an endpoint kind of thing.
Just end to end, right.
We're going to do a very simple thing,
kind of pulling together some of
the things we learned yesterday.
We're going to choose GraalVM, choose Web,
choose Postgres, choose Docker Compose.
You also want to add JDBC.
How do I not have that?
Actually?
There you go.
Add Spring Data jdbc.
That's the important bit if you want
to do live reloads, which you should.
Dev tools are great, but
since we're just doing a one Endpoint.
Yep, this will pay dividends in anything
longer than a 5 minute project.
Great point.
DevTools, Docker Compose, these
are all quality of life improvements.
The core of the application is just
the web, postgres and the jdbc.
Everything else is to make
the code worthy of production and
make the experience worthy of you.
Hit Enter, open this up.
This is just.
I'm going to.
Here's the long form, right?
Unzip CD E2E idea Palm XML.
Okay, if that does.
If you don't have idea,
you should, but if you don't,
you can just go to File Open and
then point to the Palm xml.
That'll be the same result
if you're in Intellij or
in Eclipse as far as I remember.
And we're going to talk to a database.
The database is provided for
us by Docker Compose here.
So make sure you don't have Postgres
running in another Docker image somewhere.
So I'll do that and then just.
I'm going to have a little domain.
I expect my domain will be
around a customer of some sort.
I'm going to signal that this
is the primary key by using id.
I'll create a repository
to make Data access,
trivial customer integer.
Let's see.
Record.
There you go and
then finally a controller.
So response body class
customer controller.
Get mapping customers.
Customer, customer and
then one of my favorite features here,
customerepositoryfindall.
Okay, so that's the code that'll work but
of course you need a database.
So who's going to initialize the database?
Well, you can ask spring boot to create.
To initialize a schema on startup by
creating a file called schema SQL and
create table if not exists customer, ID,
serial primary key name text.
There's that and
then you need some sample data, right?
So data SQL insert into
customer name values.
Josh Dushan.
Okay, there's two.
Now you want to tell spring boot to make
sure to run those SQL files because it's
a postgres and
you don't necessarily want it running
against your production database.
And then start, that's going to run Docker
for you, which you may or may not want.
It takes a long time.
So local host 8080 customers.
There we go.
Okay, any question like,
I can do that again?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Would there be a reason
you'd want to enable virtual threads for
this project?
>> Josh Long: Yes, I would enable them
by default, and that's extra points, but
you get yes, please do that.
Good idea.
>> Speaker 3: One follow up to that
virtual threads question is why would you
want to enable them?
>> Josh Long: Because anytime you do IO,
in this case talking to a SQL database,
when you go to your browser and
open up localhost 8084 customers,
this method gets invoked
inside of a thread,
of which there are precious
few in a given system.
So you want to make sure that when you're
doing things that don't need to be
executing on a thread, such as just
waiting for bytes to come back from
a socket, that you do that work
while not sitting on a thread.
So virtual threads will automatically
detect that you're talking to a SQL
database or
to another network socket of any kind, and
that therefore you're not doing anything
on the thread, you're just waiting.
And it'll move that waiting
operation off to the side.
And then as soon as that waiting
operation is finished, it'll signal, hey,
I've got some bytes.
It's time to continue execution.
It'll reconstruct the stack and
allow you to complete.
So basically, virtual threads make
the inefficient wait time that we spend
talking to other network services not so
problematic in terms of our ability
to scale and handle more requests.
Because we need one thread per request,
and if those threads are busy,
just waiting for bytes,
then that's a waste.
Sorry.
All the pop ups.
Does anybody need to see this schema?
There you go and then there's the data.
>> Speaker 4: When you declared the id,
which extension does that come from?
>> Josh Long: Spring Data jdbc.
Actually, Spring Data JDBC is a module
in the Spring Data project, and
the ID annotation is common
to all Spring Data projects.
So you can use it for MongoDB, you can
use it for Neo4J, you can use it for
Cassandra, you can use it for Redis,
you can use it for SQL databases,
you can use it for
elasticsearch and Couchbase.